[Dart 3] Migration guide (#4808)
dart-lang/site-www: src/resources/dart-3-migration.md

---
title: Dart 3 migration guide
description: Tips for how to migrate existing Dart code to be compatible with Dart 3.
---

Dart 3 is a new major release of Dart, that brings new core capabilities like
records, patterns, and classes. Alongside these new capabilities the release

> also contains a number of changes, that may break existing code. The present

Reviewer: Nit: No comma needed after "changes".

document is intended to be a migration guide that may be helpful in resolving

> these.

Reviewer: This is pretty formal. How about: "This guide will help you resolve these."

  • illegal_language_version_override
```

```terminal
$ dart run bin/my_app.dart
../pkg1/lib/pkg1.dart:1:1: Error: Library doesn't support null safety.
// @dart=2.9
^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

#### Migration

A first step before beginning any migration to Dart 3, is to ensure your app or package has been 100% migrated to enable null safety. This must happen using a Dart `2.19` SDK, not a Dart 3 SDK. For details, see the [null safety migration guide](/null-safety/migration-guide).

### Colon-syntax for default values

For historical reasons, named optional parameters could specify their default
value using either `:` or `=`. In Dart 3 only the `=` syntax is allowed.

#### Scope

This is an *unversioned* change, that applies to all Dart 3 code.

#### Symptom

Dart analysis produces errors like:

```
line 2 • Using a colon as a separator before a default value is no longer supported.
```

#### Migration

Change from using colons:

```dart
int someInt({int x: 0}) => x;
```

To using equals:

```dart
int someInt({int x = 0}) => x;
```

This migration can be made manually, or automated with `dart fix`:

```
$ dart fix --apply --code=obsolete_colon_for_default_value
```

### `mixin`

> Pre-Dart 3, any `class` could be used as a `mixin`.

Reviewer: Not just any class. Only classes with no declared constructors and no superclass other than `Object`.

> In Dart 3, only types declared `mixin class` or `mixin`, may be used as a mixin.

Reviewer: It would be good to emphasize that Dart 3 might not break *your* class, but it could break other code *using* your class.

#### Scope

> This is a *versioned* change, that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

Reviewer: It's not clear here where this change applies to the library where the class is declared, or where it's used as a mixin. Maybe say:

> Classes declared in libraries at language version 3.0 or later can't be used as mixins unless marked `mixin`. This restriction applies to code in any library attempting to use the class as a mixin, regardless of the latter library's language version.

#### Migration

Determine if the class is intended to be used as a mixin.

> If the class defines an interface, consider using `implements`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this is trying to say.

Author: @munificent

### `switch` and `continue`

Dart 3.0 interprets [switch cases](/language/control-flow#switch-and-case)
as patterns [*TODO* LINK] instead of constant expressions. 

> Also, Dart 3 reports a compile-time error if a continue statement targets a

Author: Done

label that is not a loop (for, do and while statements) or a switch member.

#### Scope

This is a *versioned* change, that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

#### Symptom

Most constant expressions found in switch cases are valid patterns
with the same meaning (named constants, literals, etc.).

TODO: Give an example

For continue statements, you will see an error like:
```
The label used in a 'continue' statement must be defined on either a loop or a switch member.
```

#### Migration

For constant expressions, tweak them to make them valid.

TODO: Give an example

> For continue statements, change the continue to target a valid labeled statement,

Author: Good point, done

which must be attached to a `for`, `do` or `while` statement.

## Dart 3 core library changes

### APIs removed

**Breaking change [#49529][]**: The core libraries have been cleaned up to remove APIs that have been deprecated for several years. The following APIs no longer exist in the Dart core libraries.

[#49529]: https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/49529

#### Scope

This is an *unversioned* change, that applies to all Dart 3 code.

#### `dart:core`

- Removed the deprecated `List` constructor, as it wasn't null safe.
  Use list literals (e.g. `[]` for an empty list or `<int>[]` for an empty

>   typed list) or [`List.filled`][].

Author: Done

| Historical tool | `dart` replacement                                       | Deprecation | Discontinuation |
|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------------|
| `stagehand`     |  `dart create`                                           | [2.14](https://github.com/dart-lang/stagehand/issues/671)        | 2.14*  |
| `dartfmt`       | [`dart format`](https://dart.dev/tools/dart-format)      | [2.14](https://github.com/dart-lang/dart_style/issues/986)        | [2.15](https://github.com/dart-lang/dart_style/issues/986)            |
| `dart2native`   | [`dart compile exe`](https://dart.dev/tools/dart-compile)    | [2.14](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/commit/cac00e9d956a6f7ef28628989912d971f6b908d4)        | [2.15](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/commit/6c5fb84716b1f257b170351efe8096fe2af2809b)            |
| `dart2js`       | [`dart compile js`](https://dart.dev/tools/dart-compile)    | [2.17](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/commit/8415b70e75b1d5bbe8251fa6a9eab2d970cf9eec)         | [2.18](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/commit/69249df50bcc7a0489176efd3fd79fff018f1b91)             |

> | `dartdevc`      | none                              | [2.17](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/commit/5173fd2d224f669fd8d0a1d21adbfd6187d10f53)         | [2.18](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/commit/69249df50bcc7a0489176efd3fd79fff018f1b91)             |

Reviewer 2: Wait, really? We don't support DDC anymore? I thought that `dart compile js` just picked between DDC functionality and dart2js functionality based on whether the user is asking for a debug build, or something.

If I'm right about this, it would be better for this line to say `dart compile js` instead of "none", maybe with some explanatory text afterwards to clarify how `dart compile js` figures out which mode you want.

If I'm wrong, and we really don't support DDC anymore, it would be good to have some more text here, explaining why we've decided not to support it anymore, and giving recommendations to users who were relying on that functionality.

Author: I'm a bit in doubt... @kevmoo can you keep me honest here?

Reviewer 3: DDC was never really supported...directly. Invoking it has always been *crazy*. We tell folks to use `webdev` or `pub run build_runner serve` etc

Reviewer 2: Ah, interesting. In that case, I think a little bit of explanatory text would be nice, just so that folks don't panic and think that we're taking DDC away 😃

Author: Linking to `webdev` now

---
title: Dart 3 migration guide

> description: Tips for how to migrate existing Dart code to be compatible with Dart 3.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: How to migrate existing Dart code to be compatible with Dart 3.
```

---

> Dart 3 is a new major release of Dart, that brings new core capabilities like
> records, patterns, and classes. Alongside these new capabilities the release
> also contains a number of changes, that may break existing code. The present
> document is intended to be a migration guide that may be helpful in resolving
> these.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Dart 3 is a major release that introduces new core capabilities to Dart: 
records, patterns, and class modifiers.

Alongside these new capabilities, Dart 3 contains a number of changes
that may break existing code. 
This migration guide explains the breaking changes in Dart 3
and how you can resolve them.
```

Reviewer 4: I'll come back after my work gets published and add links on "records, patterns, and class modifiers"

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 4: Right under here, could we put how to actually get dart 3? Even if it's as simple as "run `dart pub upgrade`?

```suggestion
## Introduction

To get Dart 3 and be able to use its features, you need to run `dart pub upgrade`, and update the minimum SDK version in your [`pubspec.yaml`](/guides/packages#creating-a-pubspec): `sdk: ^3.0.0`

```

Author: Add above

### Unversioned vs versioned changes

The potentially breaking changes listed below fall into one of two categories:

> * **Unversioned changes**: These are changes which are affect any Dart code,
> which is used after upgrading to a Dart 3 SDK. There is no way to "turn off"
> these changes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Unversioned changes**: These changes affect any Dart code after upgrading to >= Dart 3.0 SDK. 
There is no way to "turn off" these changes.
```

> * **Versioned changes**: Versioned changes are different, 
> and only apply when the package/app has selected the 
> Dart 3.0 (or above) language version. 
> The language version [is derived](/guides/language/evolution#language-version-numbers)
> from the `sdk` lower-constraint in the `pubspec.yaml` file. An SDK constraint like
> this does *not* apply the Dart 3 versioned changes:

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure if this is the _right_ link, but any link to what "selecting the language version" actually entails or how to do it, so... I chose the pubspec guidance? Maybe there's something better.

```suggestion
* **Versioned changes**: These changes only apply when the package or app's
language version is set to >= Dart 3.0. 
The [language version](/guides/language/evolution#language-version-numbers)
is derived from the `sdk` lower-constraint in the
[`pubspec.yaml` file](/guides/packages#creating-a-pubspec). 
An SDK constraint like this does *not* apply the Dart 3 versioned changes:
```

    ```yaml
    environment:
      sdk: '>=2.14.0 <3.0.0'
    ```
    But an SDK constraint like this does:
    ```yaml
    environment:

>       sdk: '>=3.0.0 <4.0.0'

Reviewer 4: Should we use the new syntax(`^`)? Not sure if that works here

Author: I think that *might* be confusing here, yeah

    ```

> Note that to use the new Dart 3 features you have to update the language version
> to 3.0, and thus you'll also get the Dart 3 versioned changes at the same time.

Reviewer 4: I feel like this should be the first thing under the "Introduction" heading, before this section.

```suggestion
To use the new Dart 3 features you have to update the language version
to 3.0. This gets you the Dart 3 versioned changes at the same time.
```

### Dart 3 backwards compatibility

> Many packages and apps migrated to use null safety with Dart 2.12 or later are
> likely be backwards compatible with Dart 3. This is possible as for any package where
> the lower bound of the SDK constraint is 2.12.0 or higher, pub will allow
> resolution even when the upper bound is limited to versions below 3.0.0. For

Reviewer 4: I took out "migrated" from the first sentence because it's just that they used null safety in 2.12 or later, whether they migrated to use it or were just created with it doesn't matter, right? If it does matter, you should add it back.

```suggestion
Many packages and apps that used null safety with Dart 2.12 or later are
likely backwards compatible with Dart 3. This is possible for any package where
the lower bound of the SDK constraint is 2.12.0 or higher. 

[Dart's pub tool](/guides/packages) allows resolution even when the upper bound is limited to versions below 3.0.0. For 
```

I also changed the first mention of "pub" to "Dart's pub tool", if that's correct to say, I think it's clearer.

example, a package with the following constraint will be allowed to resolve with
a Dart 3.x SDK, as pub will re-interpret the upper-constraint `<3.0.0` as `<4.0.0`
when the lower constraint is `2.12` or higher:

```yaml
environment:
  sdk: '>=2.14.0 <3.0.0'           # This is interpreted as '>=2.14.0 <4.0.0'
```

This allows developers to use Dart 3 sound null safety with packages that have
been migrated to 2.12 null safety without needing a second migration, unless
the code is affected by any other Dart 3 changes.

### Testing for impact

To understand if your source code is impacted by any Dart 3 changes, 
use these steps:

```terminal

> $ dart --version    # make sure this reports 3.0.0 or higher
> $ dart pub get      # this should resolve without issues
> $ dart analyze      # this should pass without errors

Reviewer 4: I've been told to make code comments complete sentences before, so just passing along that message :)

```suggestion
$ dart --version    # Make sure this reports 3.0.0 or higher.
$ dart pub get      # This should resolve without issues.
$ dart analyze      # This should pass without errors.
```

```

If the `pub get` step fails, try to upgrade your dependencies
to see if more recent versions might support Dart 3:

```terminal
$ dart pub upgrade

> $ dart analyze      # this should pass without errors

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ dart analyze      # This should pass without errors.
```

```

> Or if needed also include major versions upgrades:
> ```terminal
> $ dart pub upgrade --major-versions
> $ dart analyze      # this should pass without errors

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Or, if needed, also include [major versions](tools/pub/cmd/pub-upgrade#--major-versions) upgrades:
```terminal
$ dart pub upgrade --major-versions
$ dart analyze      # This should pass without errors.
```

```

## Dart 3 language changes

### 100% sound null safety

> Null safety was introduced in Dart 2.12, more than two years ago. In Dart 2.12
> it was enabled [with a pubspec setting](/null-safety/#enable-null-safety),
> but in Dart 3, you always get null safety, and it cannot be turned off.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Dart 2.12 introduced null safety more than two years ago. In Dart 2.12, 
users needed to enable null safety [with a pubspec setting](/null-safety/#enable-null-safety).
In Dart 3, null safety is built in; you cannot turn it off.
```

#### Scope

> This is an *unversioned* change, that applies to all Dart 3 code.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is an [*unversioned* change](#unversioned-vs-versioned-changes), that applies to all Dart 3 code.
```

#### Symptom

Packages developed without null safety support will cause issues
when resolving dependencies with `pub get`:

```terminal
$ dart pub get

Because pkg1 doesn't support null safety, version solving failed.
The lower bound of "sdk: '>=2.9.0 <3.0.0'" must be 2.12.0 or higher to enable null safety.
```

Libraries that opt out of null safety with [language version comments](/guides/language/evolution#per-library-language-version-selection)
that select any language version below `2.12` will cause analysis or compilation
errors:

```terminal
$ dart analyze .
Analyzing ....                         0.6s

  error • lib/pkg1.dart:1:1 • The language version must be >=2.12.0. 
  Try removing the language version override and migrating the code.
  • illegal_language_version_override
```

```terminal
$ dart run bin/my_app.dart
../pkg1/lib/pkg1.dart:1:1: Error: Library doesn't support null safety.
// @dart=2.9
^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

#### Migration

> A first step before beginning any migration to Dart 3, is to ensure your app or package has been 100% migrated to enable null safety. This must happen using a Dart `2.19` SDK, not a Dart 3 SDK. For details, see the [null safety migration guide](/null-safety/migration-guide).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Before beginning any migration to Dart 3, ensure your app or package has been 100% migrated to enable null safety. 
This requires a Dart `2.19` SDK, not a Dart 3 SDK. For details, see the [null safety migration guide](/null-safety/migration-guide).
```

> ### Colon-syntax for default values

Reviewer 4: Nothing to change here, but this needs to be updated in the "named parameters" section of the [Functions](https://dart.dev/language/functions#named-parameters) page. Will make an issue for tracking

For historical reasons, named optional parameters could specify their default

> value using either `:` or `=`. In Dart 3 only the `=` syntax is allowed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
value using either `:` or `=`. In Dart 3, only the `=` syntax is allowed.
```

#### Scope

> This is an *unversioned* change, that applies to all Dart 3 code.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is an [*unversioned* change](#unversioned-vs-versioned-changes), that applies to all Dart 3 code.
```

#### Symptom

Dart analysis produces errors like:

```
line 2 • Using a colon as a separator before a default value is no longer supported.
```

#### Migration

Change from using colons:

```dart
int someInt({int x: 0}) => x;
```

To using equals:

```dart
int someInt({int x = 0}) => x;
```

This migration can be made manually, or automated with `dart fix`:

```
$ dart fix --apply --code=obsolete_colon_for_default_value
```

### `mixin`

> Pre-Dart 3, any `class` could be used as a `mixin`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Pre-Dart 3, any `class` could be used as a `mixin`, as long as it had no declared constructors and no superclass other than `Object`.
```

In Dart 3, only types declared `mixin class` or `mixin`, may be used as a mixin.

#### Scope

> This is a *versioned* change, that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is a [*versioned* change](#unversioned-vs-versioned-changes), that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Missing a "Symptom" section:

```suggestion
#### Symptom

The diagnostic `CLASS_USED_AS_MIXIN` will throw:

{add codeblock backticks here}
The analyzer produces this diagnostic when a class that is neither a
`mixin class` nor a `mixin` is used in a `with` clause.
```

#### Migration

> Determine if the class is intended to be used as a mixin.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For library and package owners: 

- If the class is intended to be used as both a mixin and a class,
  change the `class` declaration to `mixin class`.

- If the class doesn't need to be used as a normal class,
  and is only meant to be mixed in, change the `class` declaration
  to `mixin`.

- If the class is not meant to be mixed in, keep the `class` declaration.
  Remove any use of the class in a `with` clause.

- In case of any changes, alert your package's users about the breaking change
  and which classes can no longer be mixed in when you migrate to Dart 3.
```

Author: I *think* we should focus the migration guide on API consumers, and the smallest amount of change needed to existing code to "make it work" again. I think the task of "locking down" an API as a producer using the new modifiers, is a bit outside the scope here (and rather something I consider an API design problem we should have in regular docs, as API authors will have to consider that for any new API they create).

Reviewer 4: Ok that makes sense. I also forgot about Bob's specific class modifiers guide, which I'm assuming covers the content in my suggestion. Carry on!

If the class defines an interface, consider using `implements`.

### `switch`

Dart 3.0 interprets [switch cases](/language/control-flow#switch-and-case)
as patterns [*TODO* LINK] instead of constant expressions. 

#### Scope

This is a *versioned* change, that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

> #### Symptom
> 
> Most constant expressions found in switch cases are valid patterns
> with the same meaning (named constants, literals, etc.).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Symptom

Most constant expressions found in switch cases are valid patterns
with the same meaning (named constants, literals, etc.).
These will behave the same and no symptoms will arise.

The few constant expressions that aren't valid patterns will trigger the [`invalid_case_patterns` lint](tools/linter-rules#invalid_case_patterns).
```

> TODO: Give an example

Reviewer 4: I wouldn't show an example here, except maybe the actual message from the `invalid_case_patterns` lint, to match the form of the other "Symptom" sections.

#### Migration

> For constant expressions, tweak them to make them valid.
> 
> TODO: Give an example
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can revert back to the original behavior by prefixing the case pattern with `const`:

{enclose in backticks:}
case const [1, 2]:
case const {'k': 'v'}:
case const {1, 2}:
case const Point(1, 2):

You can run a quick fix for this breaking change, using `dart fix` or from your IDE.
```

### `continue`

Dart 3 reports a compile-time error if a continue statement targets a

> label that is not a loop (for, do and while statements) or a switch member.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
label that is not a loop (`for`, `do`, and `while` statements) or a switch member.
```

#### Scope

This is a *versioned* change, that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

#### Symptom

You will see an error like:
```
The label used in a 'continue' statement must be defined on either a loop or a switch member.
```

#### Migration

If changing behavior is acceptable, 

> change the continue to target a valid labeled statement,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
change the `continue` to target a valid labeled statement,
```

which must be attached to a `for`, `do` or `while` statement.

> If you want to preserve behavoir use `break`:
> In previous versions of Dart, a `continue` statement 
> that wasn't targeted at a loop or a switch member 
> behaved like `break`. So to migrate to Dart 3.0, 
> change the `continue` statement to a `break` statement.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to preserve behavior, change the
`continue` statement to a `break` statement.
In previous versions of Dart, a `continue` statement 
that wasn't targeted at a loop or a switch member 
behaved like `break`.
```

[`Counter`]: https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.18.2/dart-developer/Counter-class.html
[`Gauge`]: https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.18.2/dart-developer/Gauge-class.html

#### `dart:html`

- As previously announced, the deprecated `registerElement`
  and `registerElement2` methods in `Document` and `HtmlDocument` have been
  removed.  See [#49536](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/49536) for
  details.

#### `dart:math`

- The `Random` interface can only be implemented, not extended.

#### `dart:io`

- Update `NetworkProfiling` to accommodate new `String` ids
  that are introduced in vm_service:11.0.0

#### Symptom

Dart analysis (e.g. in your IDE, or in `dart analyze`/`flutter analyze`) will fail with errors like:

```
error line 2 • Undefined class 'CyclicInitializationError'.
```

#### Migration

Manually migrate away from using these APIs.

### Extends & implements

Dart 3 supports new class modifiers [*TODO* LINK] that can restrict the capabilities of a class.
They have been applied to a number of classes in the core libraries.

#### Scope

This is a *versioned* change, that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

#### `dart:core`

> * The `Function` type can no longer be implemented, extended or mixed in. Since Dart 2.0, writing implements Function has been allowed for backwards compatibility, but it has not had any effect. In Dart 3.0, the Function type is final and cannot be subtyped, preventing code from mistakenly assuming it works.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The `Function` type can no longer be implemented, extended or mixed in.
Since Dart 2.0, writing `implements Function` has been allowed
for backwards compatibility, but it has not had any effect.
In Dart 3.0, the `Function` type is final and cannot be subtyped,
preventing code from mistakenly assuming it works.
```

* The following declarations can only be implemented, not extended:
  - `Comparable`
  - `Exception`
  - `Iterator`
  - `Pattern`
  - `Match`
  - `RegExp`
  - `RegExpMatch`
  - `StackTrace`
  - `StringSink`

> None of these declarations contained any implementation to inherit, and are marked as interface to signify that they are only intended as interfaces.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
None of these declarations contained any implementation to inherit.
They are marked as `interface` to signify that they are only intended as interfaces.
```

* The following declarations can no longer be implemented or extended:

  - `MapEntry`
  - `OutOfMemoryError`
  - `StackOverflowError`
  - `Expando`
  - `WeakReference`
  - `Finalizer`

> The MapEntry value class is restricted to enable later optimizations. The remaining classes are tightly coupled to the platform and not intended to be subclassed or implemented.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `MapEntry` value class is restricted to enable later optimizations.
The remaining classes are tightly coupled to the platform and not
intended to be subclassed or implemented.
```

#### `dart:collection`

> * The following interface can no longer be extended, only implemented:
> 
>   - `Queue`

Reviewer 4: This is rendering with an extra whitespace line for some reason

```suggestion
* The following interface can no longer be extended, only implemented:
  - `Queue`
```

| `pub`           | [`dart pub`](https://dart.dev/tools/dart-pub)            | [2.15](https://github.com/dart-lang/pub/issues/2736)         | [2.17](https://dart-review.googlesource.com/c/sdk/+/234283)             |
{:.table .table-striped .nowrap}

### Null safety migration tools

  * The following null safety migration commands have been removed,
    as Dart 3 [doesn't support code without null safety](#100-sound-null-safety):
    - `dart migrate`
    - `dart pub upgrade --null-safety`
    - `dart pub outdated --mode=null-safety`

#### Scope

This is an *unversioned* change, that applies to all Dart 3 code.

#### Symptom

These commands will fail.

#### Migration

Use Dart 2.19 to [migrate to null safety](/null-safety/migration-guide).

### Analyzer config

The [analyzer configuration options](/guides/language/analysis-options#enabling-additional-type-checks)
for enabling stricter checking have changed.

#### Scope

This is an *unversioned* change, that applies to all Dart 3 code.

#### Symptom

The former configuration options will fail with a warning like:

```
The option 'implicit-casts' is no longer supported.
Try using the new 'strict-casts' option.
```

#### Migration

> Replace the analyzer config:

Reviewer 4: Is this a file? Should we link to this page (if this is the same thing): https://dart.dev/guides/language/analysis-options#the-analysis-options-file

Author: This is already linked like 10 lines further up

```
analyzer:
  strong-mode:
    implicit-casts: false
    implicit-dynamic: false
```
with:
```
analyzer:
  language:
    strict-casts: true
    strict-raw-types: true
```

### Other tools changes

  * The deprecated Observatory has been hidden by default. We recommend using [DevTools](/tools/dart-devtools).

>   * The command `dart format fix` has been replaced by `dart fix`
>     (#1153)[https://github.com/dart-lang/dart_style/issues/1153].
>   * The snapshot files bundled in the SDK for the Dart web compiler have been cleaned up (#50700)[https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/50700].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * The command `dart format fix` has been replaced by `dart fix`
    [#1153][https://github.com/dart-lang/dart_style/issues/1153].
  * The snapshot files bundled in the SDK for the Dart web compiler have been cleaned up [#50700][https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/50700].
```

```

To using equals:

```dart
int someInt({int x = 0}) => x;
```

This migration can be made manually, or automated with `dart fix`:

```
$ dart fix --apply --code=obsolete_colon_for_default_value
```

### `mixin`

Pre-Dart 3, any `class` could be used as a `mixin`,
as long as it had no declared constructors and no superclass other than `Object`.

In Dart 3, classes declared in libraries at language version 3.0 or later
can't be used as mixins unless marked `mixin`.
This restriction applies to code in any library attempting to use the class as a mixin, 
regardless of the latter library's language version.

#### Scope

This is a [*versioned* change](#unversioned-vs-versioned-changes), that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

#### Symptom

An analysis error like:

```
Mixin can only be applied to class.
```

The analyzer produces this diagnostic when a class that is neither a
`mixin class` nor a `mixin` is used in a `with` clause.

#### Migration

Determine if the class is intended to be used as a mixin.

If the class defines an interface, consider using `implements`.

### `switch`

Dart 3.0 interprets [switch cases](/language/control-flow#switch-and-case)

> as patterns [*TODO* LINK] instead of constant expressions. 

Reviewer 4: There's still a TODO link here.

I have already made a note for myself to come back to this page and add links to the first sentence (where it says "records, patterns, and class modifiers") after we actually publish everything early tomorrow morning (~7AM PST). I can make sure to add the link here if you want to remove this TODO from the text for now.

```suggestion
as patterns instead of constant expressions. 
```

#### Scope

This is a [*versioned* change](#unversioned-vs-versioned-changes), that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

#### Symptom

Most constant expressions found in switch cases are valid patterns
with the same meaning (named constants, literals, etc.).
These will behave the same and no symptoms will arise.

The few constant expressions that aren't valid patterns will trigger the [`invalid_case_patterns` lint](/tools/linter-rules#invalid_case_patterns).

#### Migration

You can revert back to the original behavior by prefixing the case pattern with `const`, so it's no longer interpreted as a pattern:

> {enclose in backticks:}
> case const [1, 2]:
> case const {'k': 'v'}:
> case const {1, 2}:
> case const Point(1, 2):

Reviewer 4: Oh sorry, that wasn't supposed to go in the text, I wrote that note in for you to add the backticks because if I added ``` in the suggestion box, it doesn't render and ends the box

```suggestion
case const [1, 2]:
case const {'k': 'v'}:
case const {1, 2}:
case const Point(1, 2):
```

[`TypeError`]: https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.18.3/dart-core/TypeError-class.html
[`FallThroughError`]: https://api.dart.dev/dev/2.19.0-374.0.dev/dart-core/FallThroughError-class.html
[`NullThrownError`]: https://api.dart.dev/dev/2.19.0-430.0.dev/dart-core/NullThrownError-class.html
[`AbstractClassInstantiationError`]: https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.18.3/dart-core/AbstractClassInstantiationError-class.html
[`CyclicInitializationError`]: https://api.dart.dev/dev/2.19.0-430.0.dev/dart-core/CyclicInitializationError-class.html
[`BidirectionalIterator`]: https://api.dart.dev/dev/2.19.0-430.0.dev/dart-core/BidirectionalIterator-class.html

#### `dart:async`

- Removed the deprecated [`DeferredLibrary`][] class.
  Use the [`deferred as`][] import syntax instead.

[`DeferredLibrary`]: https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.18.4/dart-async/DeferredLibrary-class.html
[`deferred as`]: https://dart.dev/guides/language/language-tour#deferred-loading

#### `dart:developer`

- Removed the deprecated [`MAX_USER_TAGS`][] constant.
  Use [`maxUserTags`][] instead.

- Removed the deprecated [`Metrics`][], [`Metric`][], [`Counter`][],
  and [`Gauge`][] classes as they have been broken since Dart 2.0.

> [`MAX_USER_TAGS`]: https://api.dart.dev/stable/dart-developer/UserTag/MAX_USER_TAGS-constant.html

Reviewer 5: I fixed and standardized this and the other API links in https://github.com/dart-lang/site-www/pull/4808/commits/19e7e3577e7463d445b74503d38580b084c61133 and https://github.com/dart-lang/site-www/pull/4808/commits/ddff239357c7b3f37168266582cfbcc59c39b26d.

Now all new/current APIs point to the latest stable (3.0.0 now) and removed ones point to 2.19.6 docs.

after upgrading to a Dart 3.0 SDK or later. 
There is no way to "turn off" these changes.

* **Versioned changes**: These changes only apply when the package or app's
language version is set to >= Dart 3.0. 
The [language version](/guides/language/evolution#language-version-numbers)
is derived from the `sdk` lower-constraint in the
[`pubspec.yaml` file](/guides/packages#creating-a-pubspec). 
An SDK constraint like this does *not* apply the Dart 3 versioned changes:
    ```yaml
    environment:
      sdk: '>=2.14.0 <3.0.0'
    ```
    But an SDK constraint like this does:
    ```yaml
    environment:
      sdk: '>=3.0.0 <4.0.0'
    ```

To use the new Dart 3 features you have to update the language version
to 3.0. This gets you the Dart 3 versioned changes at the same time.

### Dart 3 backwards compatibility

Many packages and apps that used null safety with Dart 2.12 or later are
likely backwards compatible with Dart 3. This is possible for any package where
the lower bound of the SDK constraint is 2.12.0 or higher. 

[Dart's pub tool](/guides/packages) allows resolution even when the upper bound is limited to versions below 3.0.0. For 

> example, a package with the following constraint will be allowed to resolve with

Reviewer 5: I agree, this is talking about the SDK constraint of a package and running package resolution on it, not its dependency's constraints.

> example, a package with the following constraint will be allowed to resolve with

Author: Your understanding is correct. But I'm still not sure why you find "a package dependency with..." easier to understand than "a package with..." ? 

I mean, the SDK constraint back-compat will work regardless of the SDK constraint being in a package you own/author yourself, or in a package that is a dependency of yours.

  An SDK constraint like this does *not* apply the Dart 3 versioned changes:

  ```yaml
  environment:
    sdk: '>=2.14.0 <3.0.0'
  ```
  
  But an SDK constraint like this does:

  ```yaml
  environment:
    sdk: '>=3.0.0 <4.0.0'
  ```

To use the new Dart 3 features you have to
update the language version to 3.0. 
This gets you the Dart 3 versioned changes at the same time.

### Dart 3 backwards compatibility

Many packages and apps that used null safety with Dart 2.12 or
later are likely backwards compatible with Dart 3. 
This is possible for any package where 
the lower bound of the SDK constraint is 2.12.0 or higher. 

[Dart's pub tool](/guides/packages) allows resolution even when
the upper bound is limited to versions below 3.0.0. 
For example, a package with the following constraint
will be allowed to resolve with a Dart 3.x SDK, 
as pub will re-interpret the upper-constraint `<3.0.0` as `<4.0.0`
when the lower constraint is `2.12` or higher:

```yaml
environment:
  sdk: '>=2.14.0 <3.0.0'           # This is interpreted as '>=2.14.0 <4.0.0'
```

This allows developers to use Dart 3 sound null safety with packages

> that have been migrated to 2.12 null safety

Reviewer 5: This also applies to packages that weren't migrated:

```suggestion
that already support 2.12 null safety
```

that select any language version below `2.12` will
cause analysis or compilation errors:

```terminal
$ dart analyze .
Analyzing ....                         0.6s

  error • lib/pkg1.dart:1:1 • The language version must be >=2.12.0. 
  Try removing the language version override and migrating the code.
  • illegal_language_version_override
```

```terminal
$ dart run bin/my_app.dart
../pkg1/lib/pkg1.dart:1:1: Error: Library doesn't support null safety.
// @dart=2.9
^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

[language version comments]: /guides/language/evolution#per-library-language-version-selection

#### Migration

Before beginning any migration to Dart 3, 
ensure your app or package has been 100% migrated to enable null safety. 
This requires a Dart `2.19` SDK, not a Dart 3 SDK. 
For details, see the [null safety migration guide][].

[null safety migration guide]: /null-safety/migration-guide

### Colon-syntax for default values

For historical reasons, named optional parameters could
specify their default value using either `:` or `=`. 
In Dart 3, only the `=` syntax is allowed.

#### Scope

This is an [*unversioned* change](#unversioned-vs-versioned-changes), 

> that applies to all Dart 3 code.

Author: Yes, it is! Good catch!

### Analyzer config

The [analyzer configuration options][] for 
enabling stricter checking have changed.

[analyzer configuration options]: /guides/language/analysis-options#enabling-additional-type-checks

#### Scope

This is an [*unversioned* change](#unversioned-vs-versioned-changes), 
that applies to all Dart 3 code.

#### Symptom

The former configuration options will fail with a warning like:

```nocode
The option 'implicit-casts' is no longer supported.
Try using the new 'strict-casts' option.
```

#### Migration

Replace this part of the analyzer config:

```yaml
analyzer:
  strong-mode:
    implicit-casts: false
    implicit-dynamic: false
```

with:

```yaml
analyzer:
  language:
    strict-casts: true
    strict-raw-types: true
```

### Other tools changes

* The deprecated Observatory has been hidden by default. 
  We recommend using [DevTools](/tools/dart-devtools).
* The command `dart format fix` has been replaced by `dart fix`
  [#1153](https://github.com/dart-lang/dart_style/issues/1153).
* The snapshot files bundled in the SDK for the Dart web compiler
  have been cleaned up [#50700](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/50700).

> 

Author: Added

TODO: Give an example

#### Migration

For constant expressions, tweak them to make them valid.

TODO: Give an example

### `continue`

Dart 3 reports a compile-time error if a continue statement targets a
label that is not a loop (for, do and while statements) or a switch member.

#### Scope

This is a *versioned* change, that only applies to language version 3.0 or later.

#### Symptom

You will see an error like:
```
The label used in a 'continue' statement must be defined on either a loop or a switch member.
```

#### Migration

> If changing behavpir is acceptable, 

Reviewer 2: Nit: typo
```suggestion
If changing behavior is acceptable, 
```
